W-23139256 Update policies-included-a2a-pii-detector.adoc (#1100)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.13/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-a2a-pii-detector.adoc

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]

|===
| Element | Required | Description
| PII Types | Yes | Array of built-in PII types to detect. Supported values are *Email*, *US SSN*, *Credit Card*, and *Phone Number*. For more information, see <<pii-types>>.
| Custom PII Patterns | No | Array of custom regex patterns to detect additional sensitive values. Define a name and regex pattern for each array entry. For example, use `name: AWS Access Key` and `pattern: AKIA[0-9A-Z]{16}` to detect AWS access keys.
| Action | No | Action to take when PII is detected. Supported values are *Reject*, *Log*, and *Log and mask*. Default is *Log*.
|===

== How This Policy Works

The policy scans A2A  JSON-RPC traffic for PII on both request and response sides.

=== Request-Side Enforcement

> The policy scans requests for the following A2A JSON-RPC methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy scans requests for these A2A JSON-RPC methods:
```

|Phone Number
|Phone numbers in common domestic and international formats based on ITU E.164 country codes. Examples include US numbers like `(555) 123-4567`, `555-123-4567`, `+1-555-123-4567`, and international numbers like `+91 98765 43210`, `+44 20 7946 0958`, `+49 30 12345678`.
|===

== Response on Reject

When the policy blocks a request, it returns HTTP 403 with a JSON-RPC 2.0 error response.

For PII detected in `params.message.parts` or `params.task.parts`:

[source,json]
----
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": null,
  "error": {
    "code": -32602,
    "message": "Invalid params",
    "data": "Request contains PII data: US SSN: 123-45-6789"
  }
}
----

For PII detected in `params.task.description`:

[source,json]
----
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": null,
  "error": {
    "code": -32602,
    "message": "Invalid params",
    "data": "Request contains PII data in task description: US SSN: 123-45-6789"
  }
}
----

NOTE: The error code is `-32602` (Invalid params) to indicate a client-side validation error. The `data` field is a string containing the detection details, not an object.

== Example Request and Logging

> This example shows an A2A  request containing multiple PII types and the corresponding log output for different action configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows an A2A request containing multiple PII types and the corresponding log output for different action configurations:
```

[source,json]
----
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "message/send",
  "id": 1,
  "params": {
    "message": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "kind": "text",
          "text": "Contact me at john.doe@example.com or call (555) 123-4567. My SSN is 123-45-6789."
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
----

[tabs]
====
Log::
+
--

> When the action is set to *Log*, the policy logs detected PII with the actual values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the action is set to *Log*, the policy logs detect PII with the actual values:
```

[source,json]
----
[accessLog] Request: `Contact me at john.doe@example.com or call (555) 123-4567. My SSN is 123-45-6789.` has sensitive data: [
  {
    "pii_type": "Email",
    "value": "john.doe@example.com",
    "start": 14,
    "end": 34
  },
  {
    "pii_type": "Phone Number",
    "value": "(555) 123-4567",
    "start": 43,
    "end": 57
  },
  {
    "pii_type": "US SSN",
    "value": "123-45-6789",
    "start": 70,
    "end": 81
  }
]
----
--

Log and Mask::
+
--

> When the action is set to *Log and mask*, the policy logs detected PII with masked values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the action is set to *Log and mask*, the policy logs detect PII with masked values:
```

With a custom pattern configured (`name: AWS Access Key`, `pattern: AKIA[0-9A-Z]{16}`), the policy logs:

[source,json]
----
[accessLog] Request: `Use this AWS key: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE for deployment` has sensitive data: [
  {
    "pii_type": "AWS Access Key",
    "value": "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE",
    "start": 18,
    "end": 38
  }
]
----

== Response Logging Example

When PII is detected in a response, the policy always logs it with raw values and forwards the response unchanged:

Response from upstream:
[source,json]
----
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 3,
  "result": {
    "task": {
      "description": "Process SSN 123-45-6789 for user john@example.com"
    }
  }
}
----

Log output (regardless of action configuration):
[source,json]
----
[accessLog] Response: `Process SSN 123-45-6789 for user john@example.com` has sensitive data: [
  {
    "pii_type": "US SSN",
    "value": "123-45-6789",
    "start": 12,
    "end": 23
  },
  {
    "pii_type": "Email",
    "value": "john@example.com",
    "start": 33,
    "end": 49
  }
]
----

The response is forwarded to the client unchanged. The *Reject*, *Log*, and *Log and mask* actions have no effect on response processing.

== Edge Cases

> The policy passes through the following without scanning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy passes through these without scanning:
```

* Non-POST requests
* Requests without a JSON Content-Type

> * Bodies that do not parse as JSON-RPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bodies that don't parse as JSON-RPC
```

* Methods not in scope (`SendMessage`, `SendStreamingMessage`, and other v1-style methods)
* Requests with missing or malformed `params`
* Empty text parts
* Parts with `kind` or `type` other than `"text"`

If a regex engine error occurs while scanning a single part, the error is logged and that part is skipped, but remaining parts continue to be scanned.

== Compliance and Data Flow

> The following tables show where raw PII values may appear based on the configured action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tables show where raw PII values appear based on the configured action.
```
